“This dude is bad, and he aint just ‘fly’,
he’s Super Fly.”
Welcome to Cinema Summary Ladies and Gentlemen. Today we hope to bring you up
to speed to the 1972 critical classic of the cadillac-cruising dope-slinging lifestyle.
Before there was hiphop, there was funk and the soul; so enjoy your viewing, here we go.
Youngblood Priest, an African-American drug dealer who specializes in selling cocaine,
enjoys a luxurious lifestyle in Harlem, but finds the dope-dealing life is getting too
risky and wants to go clean.
The movie begins when Priest confronts Fat Freddie, one of his clients, about money that
Freddie owes.
Priest gives Fatty a choice: steal from the competition, or your wife gets pressed
into working the streets.
Freddie isn’t too keen on it but accepts
Priest’s generous offer; going with a fellow
‘employee’ to commit the robbery.
So with that done, Priest finds his partner, Eddie, and asks him how much cash they currently have.
Eddie tells him that they have $300,000, and
Priest reveals his plan to buy thirty kilos
of high-quality cocaine, which they can sell
for $1,000,000 within four months.
With one million, they can leave their life
of crime, but Eddie protests that crime is
the only option left to them by “The Man.”
"It's the American dream, N****"
Priest is determined, however, and that night,
approaches Scatter, a retired dealer who started
Priest in the business.
Scatter’s new gig is running a restaurant,
fairly successful one at-that.
At first, he refuses to help Priest, but Priest plays on his emotions, claiming that he wants
to get out while he is young and before he has to face the same hurdles that Scatter
had to deal with.
The hot-tempered Eddie threatens Scatter,
politely asking that he better tell them where
he gets coke if he won’t supply the dope,
but Scatter disarms Eddie and holds him at gunpoint.
Priest, ever cool under pressure, defuses
the situation and convinces Scatter to help
them, although Scatter warns that it will
be the last time.
Soon after, Priest and Eddie are joined by
one of their low-level dealers and Freddie,
who turns over the money he stole and agrees
that “the beef” between the men is settled.
That night, Priest enjoys a romantic bath
with his girl friend Georgia, although she
disapproves of his drug usage.
When Priest reacts hostilely, Georgia explains
that she loves him and wants to help him cope
with the difficulties of street life (like
they say “Behind every great man, is a great
woman”).
The next day, Freddie is picked up for fighting,and
gets beaten by the police, revealing the time
and place that Priest and Eddie will pick
up the first kilo of cocaine from Scatter.
Not wanting to get booked, Freddie makes a
break for it and dies after getting run over
by a car.
Meanwhile, Priest and Georgia are strolling
in a park, it is here where Priest confesses
that he has got a way out of dealing.
Georgia pleads with Priest to quit immediately,
money isn't the problem, but Priest is adamant:
he must get the money, because with his criminal
record, he’d be lucky to get a job.
That night, after picking up the kilo from
Scatter, Priest and Eddie are apprehended
by several policemen.
The lieutenant in charge, reveals that he
is Scatter’s supplier and that the two men
can now go directly to him.
The lieutenant tells them they can have as
much “weight,” or kilos of cocaine, as
they want, and will be given both credit and
protection.
After the police leave, Eddie is absolutely
delighted by this killer deal, claiming that
they are set for life.
But Priest has got conviction: after 30 kilos,
he’s done, and out of there.
Voiceover: [Breathes in, sits back] “That
much”.
Soon after, the operation is in full swing
with both ‘families’ of Priest and Eddie’s
dealing, with many buying their premium coke.
Priest’s white mistress, Cynthia, also sells
to her friends, but she’s very put-off by
Priest once she learns that Priest does not
return her love and is planning on quitting
the business.
By his own admission, as a kid he wanted all
the to be successful and rich, with lover
like her, but now wants a simpler life and
will be ending their relationship.
Their argument is interrupted by the sudden
arrival of Scatter, who is being pursued by
his supplier.
Scatter reveals that Deputy Commissioner Reardon
is the guy running the operation, and is trying
to kill him for quitting.
Scatter gives Priest a packet of information
on Reardon and his family, then arranges to
meet him later, when Priest will give him
money and Scatter will escape to New York.
But Scatter doesn’t make it: when he leaves,
he gets captured and killed by the corrupt
policemen, who give him a fatal overdose of
drugs and leave his body in Priest’s car.
Both enraged and scared, Priest conducts a
meeting with two white men, then confronts
Eddie.
Priest demands his half of their profits,
and when Eddie protests that they should keep
selling, Priest tells him that Scatter was
murdered by the police, and that they aren’t
safe.
Priest leaves with cash in hand but Eddie
snitches to lieutenant.
But Priest is no ‘dummy’, he gives the
briefcase carrying the money to a disguised
Georgia in exchange for one full of rags.
Outside, Priest is held by two patrolmen,
smiling when Georgia manages to escape for them undetected.
Priest is then picked up by the lieutenant
and other policemen and taken to the waterfront,
where he and Reardon have their showdown.
Reardon threatens Priest that he must continue
selling drugs as long as he is ordered to.
But Priest got his convictions and so begins
a police beatdown.
Using his knowledge of karate, Priest kicks ass and takes names, then reveals that he knows who Reardon is.
Remember those 2 white men who he met earlier?
They’re contract killers, he hired to murder
Reardon and his entire family should anything
happen to him (Priest)
.Reardon thinks he’s bluffing, ordered his
men to open the briefcase.
To their shock, it’s full of rags.
Reardon can do nothing but watch as Priest
stalks off, giving the policemen one final
glare before driving off to join Georgia (Ride
off into the sunset, Mr. Priest.
Good luck.)
Thanks for watching ladies and gentlemen.
Don’t forget to leave a like and subscribe to get our latest updates and uploads.
Until next time.
“If I quit now I took all this chance for
nothing.
And I go back to being nothing.
Working some jive job for chump change day
after day.
Look if that's all I'm supposed to do then
they gonna have to kill me ‘cause that ain't enough".